Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
[frogs croaking]
[croaking continues]
[somber music]
[pen cap clicking]
[pen rasping]
[croaking]
[Matt] I always first start
with the eyeball like this,
and you gotta leave a little bit
of space there for the goo.
His little froggie eyelids.
That looks like sex parts
a little bit.
[marker rasping]
[Matt] I've just always been
into drawing.
And it takes tons of time
to come up with a character
that you like enough
to draw over and over again.
It's just been kind of
a slow drip of frogs
throughout my entire life.
[Matt]It's just one little frog after another,
after another, after another.
And then eventually,
it was Pepe.
[birds chirping]
[Matt] It's a happy little frog.
[interviewer] What do people
get wrong about drawing Pepe?
[Matt] Um...
Probably when they put Pepe
on the Internet saying, like,
"Kill Jews."
[upbeat music]
Are you familiar with this meme
called Pepe the Frog?
[Stephen] Okay,
so for those who don't,
here's the thing.
Here's Pepe the Frog, okay?
Have you seen, you know,
this frog meme?
Uh, forgot the name of it.
Many of you may remember
Pepe the Frog who once...
♪ I saw a man today
♪ He led a big parade
Downtown ♪
♪ And the doctor came
♪ He stands aside
Talking down ♪
♪ Hey
♪ It sounds like
I bet 90% of your viewers
haven't heard of Pepe the Frog.
[Trump Jr] I thought
it was a frog in a wig.
[woman #1] The white
supremacist movement
has taken over Pepe the Frog!
♪ 'Cause I've been really
♪ I've been in love with you
[overlapping dialogue]
[mouse clicking]
[beeping]
[upbeat music]
[screaming]
♪ I've been in love
♪ With you
[screams]
♪ I've been in love
♪ With you
[girl panting]
[footsteps rustling]
[both chuckle]
[Matt] We're here
in the community thrift store,
and, uh, it all started here.
Ooh, let's see what's back here.
[Matt] I do get, like,
waves of nostalgia
for the youthful time in my 20s working here,
just hanging out
with my friends, and...
just riding a bike
around San Francisco.
So...
I basically just want
to be young again.
[man chuckles]
Guess what.
[Matt] This is my old
office space here.
It used to be
the toy department.
This is where I spent my days.
-With...
-[Elmo giggling]
That tickles.
...guys like that.
[Matt] I would have literally
a mountain of toys every day,
and it was just
really inspiring.
It's like working
inside of a brain.
If I got caught up with my work, I would just draw.
Every day would be, like,
new toys that would come in
and I would draw them, and so...
It was my ideal job situation.
[Aiyana]Matt was always drawing that frog forever, I swear.
That was his go-to thing
to draw,
so I've been seeing
that frog's face...
for as long as I've known Matt.
[sneezes]
-[Aiyana] Ew!
-[giggles]
-Ew! Ew, ew, ew.
-Excuse you.
[Aiyana giggles]
[Matt] I mean, the first time
I actually named him Pepe
was for this comics that I did called Playtime.
I was just messing around
on Microsoft Paint
and came up with Pepe and Brett.
Two characters.
They did things
like go to raves and paint.
[keyboard clacking]
[Matt] It just kind of
naturally developed.
And then I just thought
it would be fun
to have four characters,
kinda like the Ninja Turtles.
[Matt] It became Boy's Club.
A lot of the humor is kind of
about post-college zone.
You don't quite know
what you're doing,
but you like drinking
and hanging out.
The four characters
were just reflections
of my personality
and the personality
of my friends.
Landwolf, the party dog,
Andy was the jokester
of the group,
Brett liked to dance,
and then Pepe the Frog
was just kinda like
the little brother of the group.
[clicking, beeping]
[Chris] The better
I got to know Matt,
the more, kind of, similarities I saw with him and Pepe.
Even the way Pepe looks,
like he kinda, like,
looks like Matt a little bit.
[chuckles]
[Johnny] Matt was
a little bit different
from what most people
would consider
a typical cartoonist.
I think it's more like this.
Mm-hmm.
[chuckles]
Button down shirt, nerd glasses.
[Johnny] He seem like he was,
like, a cool guy.
And Boy's Club,
it's one
of the funniest comics of,
I don't know,
the last ten years.
What's happening here is
Landwolf is passed out,
but that's like how
he passed out.
Like, he didn't quite make it
onto the bed.
[Chris] I don't know why,
I thought he was trying
to jerk off and he passed out,
like while he was...
[Matt] Oh, I see.
Yeah.
[Chris] I guess it's open
for interpretation, huh?
It is open for interpretation.
Landwolf, I think
he kind of represents
the kind of hairy,
gross roommate
that you have sometimes.
[Aiyana] Kinda clogging
the drains.
It just made me think of our actual roommate, Chris.
Issues.
[munching]
[Matt] It's weird talking
about these
because they're meant to be read in the privacy of your own home.
[Chris and Matt laughing]
I never actually had to explain
any of this shit.
[Matt laughs]
[Lisa] I met Matt
at a comics convention
where we're signing
next to each other.
I loved Matt's comics.
I grew up with an older brother
so I already had
that sense of humor
where I liked, you know,
boner jokes and barf and farts.
-[farts]
-[beeps]
[Lisa] To me,
it felt very accessible.
Like, it's the sort
of masculinity
where you can be
in your underwear
singing to Shania Twain.
♪ Oh, oh, oh, go totally crazy
♪ Forget I'm a lady
♪ Men's shirts, short skirts
You know,
when I watched Seinfeld,
I liked Kramer the best.
When I read Boy's Club,
I liked Landwolf the best.
[Emily]I guess Pepe's kind of more of an Elaine.
-I mean...
-[Lisa chuckles]
[Emily] Elaine is great,
but, uh...
But yeah, if Elaine had become
a symbol of the alt-right...
[chuckles]
I would be like,
"Yeah, that's crazy.
That shouldn't be the case."
[Johnny]
It seems incredibly random.
People are like,
"This is the character
we're going to use
for the Internet."
Like, "This is going to be
the mascot for the Internet."
[camera shutter clicks]
[Aiyana] One day, he was doing
Boy's Club comics
at my house.
[Matt]I remember I was sitting on Aiyana's little love seat
in her tiny ass apartment.
[Aiyana] He said...
"Can you...
stand over there
and bend over and,
and kind of make it look like
you're pulling your pants down
while you're bending over
so I can draw you?"
You know,
toilets are hard to draw.
People pulling down their pants
is hard to draw.
So I kind of hunched over
and pretended
like I was pulling my pants down
and he drew a little sketch.
[Aiyana]It ended up being Pepe.
So, that was my butt.
And my toilet.
-[trickling]
-Ahh!
[interviewer] So is Pepe's body
based on Aiyana?
[Matt]
[chuckles]
Whatever kind of weird stuff
kinda stuck with me
in childhood,
sometimes it ends up
in Boy's Club, like...
[Matt] I remember when I was
in second grade
and I went to the bathroom
alongside my cousin David.
And he pulled his pants
all the way down to go pee.
Underwear and everything.
[Matt] It seems
like it would feel really good
so I wanted to make a comic
about that.
Feels good, man.
[Aiyana] That was
the frame that...
[chuckles]
...started it all.
[whirring]
[Matt] I just thought
it was cool
that I could just draw a comic,
scan it in
and put it on MySpace,
and then people
would see it instantly.
[whirring]
Back then, it was kind of
newer territory and...
and I liked the vibe
of MySpace a lot.
[Matt] It was like,
um, you were inside
somebody's locker room
or something.
At the time, I had some friends
that, like, were into exercise.
[Matt]And they found it online, like a before and after shot.
It would say, "Feels good, man."
I thought it was really weird.
When it started
to snowb228
00:11226
and Matt didn't seem to mind,
I229
Feels good, man."
And I remember
just thinking, like,
"Oh, that can't be
because of Pepe."
[Chris] You know, it's just some random accident.
[Aiyana] The catch phrase,
"Feels good, man,"
started becoming more popular.
It would be a photo
of a cat or something
and it would say,
"Feels good, man."
Or there was one version of it
that said, "Feels Goodman,"
with John Goodman's face.
It was pretty funny at the time.
[chuckles]
[Matt] When I would check
my email,
every so often,
somebody would send me a link
to a Pepe being in some kind
of weird chat room
or something like that.
I remember specifically,
my dad sent me a link
to this kid
who made a Pepe song.
♪ Hey, Pepe
♪ I heard you pull
Your pants down ♪
♪ All the way to go pee
- ♪ Could you show me?
- ♪ Feels good, man
♪ Feels good, man
And it was like
this big nerdy thing.
I was, like,
kind of interested in it
as an Internet phenomenon,
but I didn't really think
too much about it.
I was just like,
ha ha, whatever.
[Johnny] When it started
to snowball...
and Matt didn't seem to mind,
I was a little, like...
"Well. I mean, that's weird."
[Johnny] I said,
"Sue them. Lawyer up."
[Matt] Man, I'm like an artist
so I don't like suing
other artists.
[Johnny]He's kind of just like, "Oh, yeah, man.
Just let them do
what they want."
Using Pepe as a meme.
That's cool, you know.
"Meme."
I didn't even know
what a meme was
or I don't even still know
if I'm saying that correctly,
but it was through Pepe
that I learned what a meme was.
[calm music]
[creaking]
[birds chirping]
[wind chimes tinkling]
[Dr. Blackmore] It's hard to remember what I first thought
when I saw Pepe the Frog.
But I think
I kind of imagined, like,
in my student days,
these guys hanging out with a...
a spliff and having a nice time.
And he was just rather
sort of hopeless and sweet
and I just thought, "Aw, mm."
[Dr. Blackmore]
Chick, chick, chick!
Chickens, come on!
[Dr. Blackmore] The whole idea
of memes comes from
Richard Dawkins' 1976 book,
The Selfish Gene.
Most of the book is about
what he called
"Universal Darwinism,"
which said all of biology
is driven by genes,
but culture is driven by memes.
He said, look around you
and you'll see floating about
in the primeval soup of culture
is information
copied by imitation
from person to person.
So that would include chairs,
trousers,
hairstyles.
All of these things
are only here
because humans have copied them
and the ones around us
are the winners
in an evolutionary battle.
And then, gradually came
the concept of Internet memes.
[Dr. Blackmore]
And people can easily see
that process happening...
with Pepe.
Pepe is a wonderful example
of a meme
that escaped out there
into the memosphere
and suffered all the things
you'd expect of a meme.
[Dale] Pepe,
it's just folds upon folds.
Um...
[Dale] The Pepe technique
is to draw too many lines.
There's another fold
and then another fold.
And, like, these...
these, like, lumps.
And he looks really cracked out,
but that's the idea.
It's like steering
into that mistake.
He also symbolizes
steering into the mistake
of staying
in your mom's basement.
[Dale] I saw Boy's Club
around 2007 or so,
kind of when
he was first posting it
on the Internet.
Then it just kept appearing
in message boards.
"Feels good, man."
In that little story,
he's owning the fact
that he's this weird guy.
That moment of owning
your loserdom,
like owning your weirdness,
right? It's like...
perfect 4chan ethics.
[keyboard clacking]
[Dale] Christopher Poole.
He was 14 years old,
living with his mom,
spending all his time indoors,
on the Internet, and...
He created this crazy monster
in his basement.
[Christopher] Now, over
7 million people are using it,
contributing over 700,000 posts per day.
And we've gone
from 1 board to 48 boards.
[suspenseful music]
So 4chan,
just the way that it functioned,
was super conducive
to creating memes.
[Dale] The way 4chan works
is that
it's a Darwinian competition
for attention.
So you have a post.
And if the post gets
a lot of replies,
it floats to the top.
And if no one replies,
it sinks to the bottom
and quickly dies.
It's a winning
and losing system.
And it's a lot like
a video game.
[Dale] There were all these
adolescent boys
trying to own each other
in the competition.
-And so it became this...
-[whooping]
[Dale] ...culture of saying
the most offensive thing.
And so, like, Pepe kind of melts into that community.
And all of the stuff
that just exploded
out of the culture
four or five years later
were being invented there
by all these clever people
and they were all anonymous.
[keyboard clacking]
[classical music playing]
[Pizza]On 4chan, you're talking to another text box
so you're free to express
those kind of secret ideas
that people have
that they don't feel comfortable expressing in real life.
I posted Pepes all the time.
To not post Pepe
would be strange
because it's just...
It's the meme.
Post, send. Boom.
[Pizza] So there I am
right there.
It's hard to say why Pepe
gained popularity so fast.
You could say it was just
an easily relatable image.
I have my own collection. I have my reaction image folder
filled with Pepe
and all the derivatives.
The term was like,
"We feel alone together."
[Dale]Um, that was their idea.
As it ages,
it just gets more desperate.
They would describe themselves
as NEET.
NEET stands for Not in Education Employment or Training.
The idea was that
they were trying to find a word
that described their situation,
for these sort of, like,
masses of kids
who are just unemployed or just
kind of dropped out of life.
I think the best thing would be
to start with a job.
-No. No!
-[Dr. Phil] Yeah, absolutely.
She needs a job.
No!
[sobbing]
[Dale] So 4chan really comes
to embody that culture
of checking out and living
in your mom's basement.
It started in 2003
and still exists.
So imagine people
being on there ten years,
like it becoming a lifestyle.
[knife thudding]
A lot of people are talking
that they have
super hot basement layers
where they get to NEET it up.
Well, I mean, basically,
nobody's really touching my game
right now, you know? So...
Got the Primo couch bed
and I just kick this shit
all over the place
because I just don't give a fuck
about anything.
And, uh...
It's... it's a life.
[chuckles]
[Mills] I think I probably saw
images of Pepe first
on the fitness board of 4chan.
You know,
this frog was so prevalent.
What does Pepe mean to me?
What does he mean to me?
He's a frog.
He's a sad frog.
Sad frog.
[Mills] Now on 4chan,
the quote-unquote sad frog
became the most popular image
for displaying sadness.
There were other images that
would describe that feeling.
[Mills] You have things
like a picture of Keanu Reeves
sitting on a bench.
But maybe
he's just deep in thought.
[horse neighs]
[Mills] That sad frog.
You knew what it was about.
Nothing else needed
to be said there.
Pepe the sad frog.
Pepe.
[woman #2] Pepe what?
-The sad frog.
-[woman #2] The sad frog?
-Pepe the sad frog.
-[woman #2] What's that?
[EKG flatlining]
You know, it wasn't something
that's really circulated heavily
on, like, Facebook
or any of that stuff
at the time.
[Mills] Pepe just kinda felt
like uniquely 4chan.
[robotic man voice]
Feels bad man.
I didn't know
about the Boy's Club comic
or anything like that.
I did not know
who Matt Furie was.
[Mills] Even after
I learned about Boy's Club,
I was like, "Oh, they're making a Pepe comic.
Oh, that's cool."
[upbeat music]
[upbeat music continues]
[chuckles]
That's the story, um...
[Peder] It's about
somewhere in the future.
The mutants have taken over
and they make new children.
I like this style of gun.
[laughs]
Are you, uh...
actually the guy that made...
-that made Pepe? Yeah.
-Yeah, yeah.
[Matt chuckles]
But it must suck for you
that it, uh...
00:21:33.988 441
to expres446
And this s447
I mean, it definitely sucks,
but, nothing's forever, right?
[Matt chuckles]
[Matt] I'm just a spectator
to how things
kinda mutate and evolve
on the Internet.
You kinda see everything
as some big joke,
but it's like kind of a window into this kinda like dark place.
[shutter clicks]
[indistinct chatter]
[Matt] I'll draw you
a little Pepe.
[Matt] People on the Internet
have their own characters
that Pepe was interacting with.
There's one where
he's interacting with this guy.
I think his name is Wojack.
[clanking]
I would see pictures of Pepe,
like, hugging this stark white
sad looking guy.
And I was like, "What is that?"
[somber music]
They call him, you know,
The Feels Guy or...
Wojack is the proper term.
[Mills] He was for expressing
an unpleasant feeling.
I'd be sitting there
and kinda be tense from anxiety
kind of, like...
[inhales sharply]
You know, and being...
like that.
And I go on the board,
I'd be like, "Okay.
These are my people."
[Mills]We're all over the world but we all have
these feelings of anxiety
and everything together
and it's like a group therapy
on the Internet.
Even when I was at work,
we had these security cameras.
I would duck behind,
like, a stack of crates
and quick to be, like,
"You dumb idiots."
[Mills] Then I'd check,
like, 10-15 minutes later,
you know, to see
who's replying to me,
and I would face an onslaught
of people just saying
I was the most
hideous man alive.
I would, you know, wear that as a badge of honor.
I'd be like,
"Yes. I'm a true 4chan guy.
I'm a true social reject.
I'm a true freak.
Yeah, you're darn tooting."
I'm a latecomer to Pepe.
Uh, probably because
he's not my type.
[laughs]
[Dr. Aleks] I came to Pepe
after he had gone dark.
Pepe is a sad frog.
He's never happy.
He's just sort of miserable.
[thunder crashing]
And I think,
for a huge population,
online and offline,
we're not really allowed
to express sorrow
or sadness or grief.
And this sad little frog
arrives online
in the midst of the push
to commodify the Internet.
[Dr. Aleks] What was going on
at that point
was that everybody
was super damn positive.
The people were suddenly able
to make cash money
out of their image
which meant that they had to be, like, totally rad,
happy, fitspo,
my best-self thing.
And in drops Pepe...
ripe for the taking.
Hey, guys. It's me, Lily.
[upbeat music]
Today I'm going to be doing
a Pepe transformation.
Pepe starts to percolate
into another population.
We've got a lot more women,
a lot more girls.
[Dr. Aleks] They were sharing
their own Pepe.
Hey, guys. I just googled
what a meme was
and I think I'm in love
with memes!
Pepe... is the best.
You draw the head,
which is just like a butt.
[Mills] Things begin to spiral
really out of control.
A couple of celebrities,
Nicki Minaj and Katy Perry,
they had posted on Instagram
a couple of Pepe images.
[airplane whooshing]
[Mills]A lot of people see it for the first time.
They wonder, "Who is this frog?
What is this frog?
What is this?"
I want to see
some more of that.
They start making, like,
a migration over to 4chan.
[Mills] Young women
in particular,
downloading Pepe images , using them for their own likes.
And that was seen as...
despicable.
I love Pepe so much.
The true Pepe is this Pepe.
[girl #1]Pepe has green skin. It's so beautiful.
It's different from frog.
Pepe green is special green.
[eerie music]
[Mills] It seemed to me,
like, invasion.
You had people
that would come on and say,
"Why are all you
virgin losers here?"
You know,
"Where's the Pepe pictures at?
Where are they at?"
[girl #2] I strive to be Pepe.
Just kidding.
I hate Pepe the Frog.
Pe... whatever his name is.
Peep, Pepe.
Either way, he's stupid.
And I don't really know
why I made my face green
to prove the point
that I hate Pepe.
But let me prove it by saying,
"I hate you, Pepe."
I'm going to chop your head off.
Your little...
Your little froggie head off
like this.
It was serious
to a lot of people, like,
"This is the symbol
of our culture."
[Mills] And it really was turning into a total Pepe Fest.
[Matt] Ooh, nice.
[Matt] Pepe was just really turning into a thing and, um...
my buddy Skinner was, like,
"Hey you should do
a clothing line."
[fanfare music]
[camera shutter clicking]
Yeah, it was just kinda funny
to make something official
out of something that's so,
kind of, like...
bootlegged on the Internet.
I drew all these...
goofy-ass Pepes
that were kinda based on...
just whatever random nonsense
was out there on the Internet.
I like this one
with the little cigarette.
[Matt] This one's
particularly weird.
And this one is just...
[blows raspberry]
I like that. That's a
very stripped down Pepe.
The sad frog golf shirt.
You can have
a pasta meal with your family
wearing this one.
Pepe was, like, a famous meme.
[Chris] And my friend, Jay,
he got a tattoo gun.
He just had it set up
in his kitchen.
And so one night,
I think it was just
completely spontaneous.
We're just like,
"Oh, let's get Pepe tattoos."
It's like very little thought
goes into this at all, you know.
[chuckles]
[Chris] We just thought
it was funny
to have a Pepe tattoo
and Matt was there
so it was like a tribute
to my friend.
I didn't know at the time
but I got it, like,
below my sleeve here.
[Chris] That would kind of, uh,
come back to bite me.
As the Pepe defense was building
to try and steer people away
from using Pepe
for their own, you know,
normie usage...
that spawned a lot of angry,
raging Pepes.
But then,
that fateful day occurred
where there was a YouTube video
of screaming frogs.
[man #1] Say something
for the camera.
Look at the thing blow up
like a balloon.
[squeaky scream]
[scream continues]
[Mills] They have
a high pitched scream
which sounded a lot like...
-[imitates frog scream]
-[squeaky scream]
[Mills] And it became
like this battle cry.
[screaming]
[Mills]There would be somebody who would be coming in
from Instagram.
Sort of out themselves,
maybe a sex-haver
or a woman.
A neurotypical,
socially well-adjusted person.
Once you kinda get that seed
planted in the head of, like,
you know, the popular kids
and look...
look how they're living,
then look at you, you know.
You're this...
You're this... slug.
[Mills] All you normies
have been bullying us
our whole lives.
I'll never be one of you
disgusting normies.
Fuck... normies.
[suspenseful music]
[screaming]
[eerie music]
You know, these were a group
of disempowered men
who had retreated
into fantasy worlds.
[growling]
[Dale]That was their last place of retreat, in a sense.
And so, having women there
was what they didn't want
because that was a symbol
of their defeat in real life.
Ursula.
Hey.
-Is that Twilight Sparkle?
-Mm-hmm!
-Is that her name?
-Yeah!
She's like,
"Ursula, I'm going to help you."
[Ursula] Aw!
-Okay.
-That's so cute.
That one says,
"A pocket mouse sleeps...
-safely it in its nest."
-That's so cute.
-It's a little mouse.
-Oh.
[Matt]
People would just email me
fucked up pictures of Pepe
and it didn't really shock me.
I'd be more shocked by,
you know, people actually...
expressing some form
of cuteness or love
like this other stuff is just...
It's just garbage.
[Matt] I think the weird thing
about American culture
in general is, like,
we do kinda celebrate garbage
and we also produce a hell
of a lot of physical garbage.
So it's just like...
fucking garbage world.
[Matt]
I was definitely conscious
of not wanting to be remembered
as the artist that did
Boy's Club.
So I just wanted
to keep doing other stuff.
There's no connection
between this frog and Pepe
other than they kinda look
like one another.
But this is just another frog
in a different place.
[Matt] I decided to do
a whole kids book
that was totally wordless.
It follows the life of this frog
and his pet rat...
living in
a little mushroom house.
It's harmle663
The problem, I think,664
Okay, look at me.
[Matt] Through the forest
then they end up
surfing on some dolphins,
and swimming
and going underground.
I just really went
for the childlike wonder
with this one.
[bicycle bell ringing]
[Brian] The Night Riders.
It's a work of highly skilled craftsmanship.
It took him almost a year
to make it.
I told him, you know,
I saw that he had that in him.
He had a
Where the Wild Things Are
in him, I just knew it.
We were working on
The Night Riders
before all this insane
Pepe stuff started to happen.
[Brian] Pepe's really just
the tip of the iceberg
for the kind of art
that Matt's capable of making.
[Brian] How come the dragon
doesn't have wings?
[Matt] It's more of
a land dragon,
than a dragon of the air
or a dragon of the sea.
So he's... He's a land dragon.
[Brian] The characters
are of different species,
but they seem like friends
from the neighborhood.
We can tell they love each other
and the book is built toward
a bunch of nocturnal animals
experiencing a sunrise.
[seagulls squawking]
The end.
[crickets chirping]
[Dale] Pepe had escaped
and he was roaming around.
And, like,
it was fun for a while.
[chuckles]
[Dale] Um, until, uh...
-[rattles]
-[shatters]
[Dale] ...it wasn't anymore.
[laughs]
And on 4chan...
whenever they thought
quote-unquote normies,
sort of outsiders or other sites
were stealing their memes,
they would try to make them
as offensive as possible.
[Dale] It's like a classic
punk response.
Literally armored
like a punk, right?
And they're like,
"It's so offensive, I...
It can't be co-opted."
[Dale]So they put him next to the Trade Towers disintegrating.
They put swastikas all over him and Nazified Pepe.
And it sort of snowballs.
Back then, it was just the most offensive thing you could do.
But it now reads
as a weird prologue
to when the irony
kind of melted away.
There are people
on these platforms who believe
that because you've couched
your intention in a joke,
that you can disavow it
when people come asking.
That's right.
That's exactly right.
So you create this ambiguity
so there's no way for you
to mean
what you really mean ever.
Yeah.
I think what's appealing
about Pepe
is that he combines
this impossible mixture
of innocence and evil.
[Joel] Like he has this kind
of knowing smile
while he's performing acts
that are really atrocious.
It sort of fulfills the idea
that we can say
these terrible things
and just mean them as jokes
all the time.
They're always just jokes
all the time
and you can't prove otherwise.
[Joel] We're just a bunch
of kids in our underwear.
It's harmless.
No one really means it.
The problem, I think, is that
it's really demonstrable
in the worst cases
that this isn't funny.
You know, it's not funny
when people die.
[sirens blaring]
[woman on radio]
CPR in progress.
[man on radio] Okay, we got
another gunshot victim at...
Shots fired! Shots fired!
A black car pulls up and stops
and he rolls down the window...
I just saw four gunshots.
[reporter #1]
A Friday night rampage
in this bustling college town
after two gun battles
with police and a chase,
seven people were dead.
Twenty-two year old
Elliott Rodger
believed to be the gunman.
Tonight investigators are
pouring over videos
Rodger posted online.
There was sort of this intense
pain that you could see
where he was
really divorced from reality.
[Dale] Like he did
the shooting spree in a car,
a fancy car his parents
had bought for him
to boost his confidence.
[neighbor] He didn't even
make an effort.
Didn't talk to anybody.
And he was so closed off
and it was like when he was
sitting there,
you can just tell he's just
thinking these thoughts
in his head the entire time.
He's just talking to himself.
[Mills] I came on
to 4chan that day.
People in this environment
were starting to get whipped up
and they're like,
"Yeah, that's right.
You showed him who's boss."
You know, he, he went out there.
He stood up for being,
you know, the virgin with rage.
The very first picture
of Elliott Rodger that I saved
was a picture of this sort of
semi-transparent sobbing woman,
and then like three
or four Pepes with guns.
It was like one
of the very first ones
that like took Elliott
and put it into like a,
sort of like a context.
[Mills] People started
drawing Pepes
riding around in BMWs
with Elliot Rodger.
Yeah, I kind of get a little bit energized by it, you know.
And it was kind of this, like,
maybe society does need
to get flipped on its head.
-[static]
-[radio playing]
[upbeat music]
Hi, Elliot Rodger.
[Mills] I don't
condone violence, you know.
I'm not a violence condoner.
But, he set me off into the path
that made me who I am today,
and I have to acknowledge that.
[tense music]
-[buzzing]
-[heavy breathing]
On 4chan, you see something
totally new called the...
[inhales deeply]
uh, Beta Male Uprising,
the Beta Uprising.
-[mouse click] -[Dale]The idea would be that,
all of them would
run out of their mom's basements
and start shooting people.
[suspenseful music]
And of course, like, it's a way
of making fun of themselves.
It's always coded
in guarded irony.
But of course, behind the irony
is the seriousness.
Why are you talking about that?
It's because that's an issue
that resonates with you.
[computerized voice] Uprise.
Welcome to your demise.
[Dale] Pepe
then becomes the symbol.
You see him holding the gun.
It's the classic response
from 4chan,
which is like
the most nihilistic
and despairing, cynical right
where anyone wants
to kill themselves
or do something awful,
or do something anti-social,
making that screen illusion
real in some way.
Um, they're like,
"Yeah. Go for it."
[male anchor #1]
Philadelphia area colleges
have all warned students
to be extra cautious tomorrow
This is the threat that was
posted on 4chan,
a message board
where everyone is anonymous.
It was posted last Friday,
the day after
the shooting in Oregon.
It phrases the gunman
as a fellow member of
the Beta Rebellion.
The post on 4chan
uses a profile picture
of what appears to be
the Grinch in a mask,
holding a gun.
That same picture
was used in a post
the day before
the Oregon massacre.
[Finkelstein]
You see, it's not just
the memes generate the violence.
It's that the violence
becomes a meme.
But, it's just a joke.
Right? It's just a stupid frog.
[Mills] If you had had
a victory over the normies,
you know, striking back
at the oppressors,
it was seen as too enthusiastic
to post like a big, you know...
grinning, laughing,
you know, ha-ha-ha.
[suspenseful music]
So when this smug Pepe came out,
it was groundbreaking.
Like in a way that is
maybe hard to explain.
It was the most succinct,
perfect face.
Then the, uh, you know,
the, the hand up.
It had the perfect
silly look to it.
You know, crude...
like holding back laughter,
but enjoying the suffering
of others.
It was like the perfect
trolling accessory.
The way he's redrawn
with his like thumb up like
this, like really smug...
-[Lisa] Yeah.
-It's like...
that tone is so ugly.
It's used to imply like...
being above
a conversation that people
are trying to have
about kindness.
[indistinct chattering]
[camera shutters clicking]
[Mills] Trump was sort of seen
as like the personification
of the smug Pepe meme.
When he was announcing
that he was going to run,
every news story is, you know,
they don't like him.
People in his own party,
And people in the other party,
they really don't like him.
And it was like,
"Oh, this is perfect."
He's making everybody upset.
A really interesting time
in 4chan
is Trump's initial announcement
that he is
running for president.
[Aaron] If you look at
the 4chan threads,
before Trump's speech,
it was fairly skeptical.
But then they saw
a lot of these things in his rhetoric that they like.
They saw nationalism.
They saw white nationalism.
And almost immediately
you'll see people being like,
can we get a Pepe
with Donald Trump hair.
I want to start
circulating this.
And that happened,
that's within hours.
[birds squawking]
[ominous music]
[keyboard clacking]
I think that
President Trump is...
a real life version of Pepe,
in the ability to illicit
a reaction and to get attention
and to express and to capture
peoples' hopes and fears.
I was formerly the
Director of Strategy and Data
for the Trump campaign,
so I know as much, if not more
about how to use voter data
than anybody else
in the country.
During the campaign,
there was an effort by 4chan
to get other people
to support the president
by creating memes.
[Braynard]And then sharing them
to say, normies,
to try to motivate them
to support President Trump.
The inside terminology
for this was
"The Great Meme War."
It gave people who had never
really been involved
in politics before
a way in.
[Braynard]
The best memes that you see,
the most effective ones,
are just some person
who has no power at all.
They have no influence,
they have no money,
they have no connections.
But if they can make
one good meme,
they can take off and go viral.
Then when you hypercharge it
by having
the president retweet it,
you felt like you were part
of this rebel group,
this insurgency
that was completely
unpredictable and from
where no one would have
ever expected it.
How does an image like this
end up on Donald Trump's
Twitter account?
[Dale] 4chan supported Trump
for a mix of reasons.
Some of it I think
was this nihilistic idea
that Trump was a wrecking ball.
And that they wanted
to embarrass people
by electing him.
[Dale] And so when Trump
retweeted himself
depicted as Pepe,
it was like
this watershed moment.
[reporter #2] This is Donald Trump co-opting the idea
of himself, uh, sort of substituted as Pepe.
[Braynard]
It was so transgressive,
so anti-PC.
To most of the voters out there, it just seemed kind of odd.
But, if you were
part of the community
that has been spending years
and years, and years
using Pepe,
suddenly,
a little antenna goes up
and you pick up a signal
and say, "Wow.
Maybe this guy's right for us."
[suspenseful music]
[whirs]
[Greer] There's always
magic going on
in any political campaign.
And so...
what happened when Pepe the Frog
suddenly became, um,
in effect Donald Trump's
invisible running mate...
was that a magical force
had entered the picture
and it was a wild card.
[chiming]
A meme can become the anchor
or the seed, if you will,
around which a group of
like-minded people can gather
and toward which
they can focus their energy.
That's a basic tool
of meme magic.
And that's one of the things
we saw during the 2016 Election.
[suspenseful music]
[Greer] The way that magic
was used on the Chans was
they focused on building up
a series of hypersigils,
-of images like Pepe the Frog.
-[lightning crackles]
[Greer] And piled into
those images,
all of their hopes and
all of their energy,
their emotional focus
of seeing Donald Trump
in the White House.
You ended up with a lot of people on the Chans just going,
"Wow, I could do this."
[keyboard clacking]
[foreboding music]
[crowd clamoring]
It's not Republicanism
as we have known it.
These are racist ideas,
race baiting ideas.
Anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant,
anti-women. All key tenants
making up the emerging
racist ideology
known as the alt-right.
[man in crowd] Pepe!
Now, alt-right is short for
alternative-right.
The Wall Street Journal
describes it
as a loose and racist ideology
known as the alt-right.
[man in crowd] Pepe!
Pepe!
And, and to most people,
that was a totally inexplicable
thing at the moment.
It must be totally random.
To the white supremacist
anti-Semitic
neo-Nazi right in this country,
that was a moment of triumph.
[keyboard clacking]
Suddenly, Pepe the meme,
the most...
silliest piece of
meaningless culture,
was sort of like
passing through the screen.
[Dale] It was kinda like
the dream of the troll,
making the Internet real.
[suspenseful music]
It was becoming like,
you know, weird to, like,
have this tattoo.
You're here
to get me involved in your...
nightmare world?
-[gate clicks]
-What's good?
-We're here to exploit you.
-[chuckles]
[both laughing]
Is this... this better be
about Landwolf.
[Skinner] Duck your head.
Please don't kick my cat.
If, if you can help it.
[guitar chimes]
That... I think it's funny
that, like...
that Chris got the Pepe tattooed
on his arm and he was like,
-"I have to hide it now."
-[laughing]
"Somebody at Subway thought
I was a white power dude."
-Yeah. Everybody...
-[laughs]
everybody's actually very...
everybody's
very excited about Pepe.
They're like, "Oh wow,
Pepe's this awesome meme, dude."
[Skinner] He rules.
-Yeah.
-"Wow, you made Pepe?"
I was like all proud of myself,
strutting down the street,
-you know.
-[snaps fingers]
[Skinner] Now people
just throw rocks at you.
"That's the guy
who created Pepe!"
-Yeah. -[Skinner]You're not strutting
-anymore, are ya? Sicko!
-[Matt] No, I'm not.
Now I'm, now I'm like
just slithering down the street
in a pool of my own waste
or something.
-[Skinner] Whoa, like a...
-[Matt] Yeah.
-Like a slug lord.
-Like a...
Just a... a slurping slimeball.
[Skinner] But
I really do feel like
this would only happen to you.
[slime rustling]
[squelches]
[Adam]I interviewed Matt Furie in September 2016
with The Atlantic.
My impression of Furie was that
he was very well intentioned,
but somewhat naive about
the extent to which
this symbol had been
appropriated by the far right.
[reporter #3] Pepe is a white nationalist symbol...
[reporter #4]
...increasingly being used
by white supremacists...
It's something of a mascot
by the alt-right.
[Adam] Defining the alt-right
is somewhat easier these days.
But around 2016,
it encompassed a lot of people
who were ideologically
opposed to the left
but not necessarily united
on every issue.
And then you've got people
like Richard Spencer
who are overt
white nationalists.
[Spencer]
[Adam] But the alt-right Pepe
allows them
to pretend that they're kidding.
They're not kidding.
What they want is for you to be
both scared by the threat
and be mocked for being scared
in the first place.
The point is to cause that
kind of psychic anguish
and then they draw a great deal
of pleasure from that.
Basically alt-right
is a big tent
or rather a big rock
under which creeps
a diverse assortment of
paleo conservatives,
men's rights misogynists...
I remember I went to
a taping of Sam Bee.
And she had a segment about
Pepe the Frog.
And I got to meet her
after the taping.
And good
old-fashioned neo-Nazis.
And I was like, "You know,
Pepe was actually created by
a friend of mine
and he's a really sweet artist
and, and it doesn't mean
this thing that it,
it transformed into,
and she was just,
sort of like, "Okay."
The alt-right's use of Pepe
just drowned out
any other visual interpretation,
you know, Trump's former campaign chair Steve Bannon said
the Democrats
are not the opposition party,
the media
is the opposition party
and how do you beat the media?
You flood the zone with shit.
Well, these people
are flooding the zone with shit
so that you don't know
what's real or what's not.
[Alex] I mean quite frankly
I've been to the events.
It wasn't even real.
Literally,
they're just Jewish actors.
A lot of the KKK guys
with their hats off
literally looks like
the cast of Seinfeld...
[Adam] A conspiracy theorist
like Alex Jones
appeals to Trump because
one of Trump's
major political tools
is forcing people to reject
objective reality
in favor of
his version of reality.
[Alex] Well, Donald Trump,
let me say this.
You are the leading presidential
frontrunner
with the Republicans
gaining a huge lead as you don't
back down, but I got to just...
And the point of it is to
obliterate objective truth.
[man on megaphone] Fake news!
[crowd chant1095
Matt's name
was in the description
about it on the website.
- -It's like a nightmare.
He's thinking, "I've worked
my whole life
as an artist
and now I'm gonna be lumped in
with this weird new swastika.
Matt Furie
put out a statement
to the Associated Press.
He said that he was horrified
to see his creation
become a mascot
for the alt-right
fringe movement.
I don't want to
be associated with this.
You know, I'm, like, trying
to write children's books.
The nature of the media
and politics and stuff that
I've been trying to escape
from my entire life.
I don't give a shit
about any of that stuff.
Then I got pulled into it
just because...
I'm on a hate symbol
database list now
and it pissed me off.
As the news was going on
that this Internet frog
has been marked
as like a hate symbol,
that's when I got
the phone call from our buyer.
They pulled it
right away.
So, we have about 3,000 items
that were going to go
into 580 stores across the U.S.
and now it's in my garage. So...
These were probably,
like, $15 each to make.
If you think of 15 times 3,000,
like, it's pretty crazy.
-Yeah it's 45,000 dollars.
- Yup.
We didn't want
to give it to Goodwill.
to sell it ourselves
because we're afraid...
white supremacists
would wear it and then...
What is that worth versus
putting out a hate symbol?
And I'm sure you feel
the same way.
A lot of the merchandise
ended up having to be destroyed.
Yeah, now,
that's kind of the least
-of my worries.
- I know.
He was a dummy.
He just kinda let his character get away from him
and now, this shit happened.
Matt is just like most of us,
a poor, cartooning loser.
I was suggesting that he sue
the Anti-Defamation League
for defamation.
I'm just trying
to be positive.
Not everybody has a platform to talk about this kinda stuff.
I teamed up with the ADL
to just try to offer people
some creative solutions.
-Hi, everybody.
Um...
So what we're trying to do now
is to start
a Save Pepe campaign.
-And uh...
I invite everybody
to draw their own
peaceful version of Pepe
and share it on social media
with the hashtag "savepepe."
Can we turn something
that's become a recognized
hate symbol
into a recognized love symbol?
It was really funny,
but it was also really lovely.
-Like I tweeted about it. I...
-Yeah.
-I tried to help. I, like...
-Yeah. I drew a Pepe.
Part of
the Save Pepe campaign.
I'm like, damn, he's kind of
going through a situation
that isn't right
and I want to help him out.
Does that look like Pepe?
I've never drawn Pepe before,
but I figured I'm going to do
whatever I can to help
because I'm such
a big fan of Matt's, and...
So, I'm butchering
Pepe here, but...
something like that.
In Matt's work,
I can feel his love
for nature and the universe.
I was like, "Oh, yeah,
Matt's my buddy, you know.
I like Pepe, so, I just
kind of, like, you know...
I made a Peace Frog Pepe,
you know.
Does that look like Pepe?
It's getting less
and less like Pepe.
I've been working on
it for about a month now
and I've gotten
about 500 and counting
brand new peace Pepes.
My goal with this
is to eventually start something
that I'd like to call
the Peace Pepe Database of Love.
My whole thing is
just to focus on positive
and just keep being creative.
The attempt
by Matt Furie
to wrest control over Pepe,
it seems like he understands
the Internet
about as well
as Hillary Clinton does.
Maybe if the original artwork
wasn't so pedestrian and basic
that an eight year old
can draw Pepe.
A scribbling
that was improved upon by others
that was given meaning
that it never had before,
I would just
encourage Matt to...
you know, just be glad
to have been a small part
of a very big thing.
Art is supposed to be
therapeutic, so, uh...
before Trump got elected,
I just did this kind of, like,
nightmare scenario of Pepe,
like slowly morphing
into Donald Trump
and then into a monster
and then,
uh, being trapped inside
the monster's mouth,
as you can see, and, uh...
It's like a nuclear war.
This is
the new American moment.
This is like Martin-Luther-King- I-have-a-dream speech.
It's like Washington
crossing the Delaware
♪ We are the champions
We were all ecstatic.
Donald Trump, he
wasn't supposed to be there.
We all felt, like,
the meming had played a part
in the election.
The Internet's joke
kind of came to fruition.
The chaotic scene just blocks outside the secure
of the inauguration
and parade routes.
-What?
It's Pepe.
He's become kind of a symbol...
After the election,
Matt just came to me and said,
"Hey, I'm going to draw
a comic strip with Pepe in it
and I'm going to kill him."
The Pepe thing was so
out of control at that point
and whatever Pepe meant
to all these other people
didn't mean
the same thing to me.
So I just killed him.
I just thought it'd be
funny to do a comic strip
where all the boys
are at his funeral.
♪ Your picture
♪ Is still
♪ On my wall
♪ The color
♪ Are bright
♪ Bright
- ♪ As ever
♪ The red is strong
♪ The blue will rest pure
♪ Something lasts
♪ A long time
I didn't think it'd
get noticed or anything.
I'm sure you recognize
the cartoon character
Pepe the Frog.
Well, he won't be around so much longer
because his creator has decided to kill him off.
A carton frog died
on the Internet.
His name was Pepe.
It seemed like every time
he drew Pepe,
he would get
hounded by reporters.
- He just hated it.
When I had first seen
Matt's death of Pepe comic,
I was honestly a bit sad.
But the Pepe we see,
unfortunately,
has been so far removed
from the original...
that the Pepe Matt was killing
was his own.
The burden
of this weird Pepe shit
was starting to make me feel
anxious and weird.
Maybe it is
whatever people say it is.
Like I can't fucking control it, you know.
♪ The power that's inside
♪ Pokemon!
Gotta catch 'em all! ♪
♪ It's you and me
Owning a rare Pepe
is about being alpha.
It's about having dank,
rare Pepes nobody else has.
And it's about how do we
get to the moon in a Lambo.
Okay, let's pull it up.
I'm in these crypto forums,
and for the longest time,
these guys would talk
about Pepe Cash.
Some huge guys,
like, seven to eight figure
portfolio crypto guys.
And I look at the website,
I'm like, "What?
What the fuck
are they talking about?"
What is it?
So I actually am a Pepe Cash millionaire.
How many million is that?
Is that 363 million?
Ah, 363 million Internet Pepe.
You know, I like that.
This is when
we christened the SS Rare Pepe
which I bought with Pepe Cash
and I live on it.
If you want to explain
the rare Pepe economy,
imagine a few dozen geeks
on the Internet
came up with a way to trade
memes off 4chan
and lock them into ownership.
There are some Pepes
that are superhero knockoffs.
You know, Iron Man Pepes,
Spiderman Pepes.
Some people's heroes
are more political in nature.
Trump Pepe,
which is awesome,
because he's just like,
"Make crypto great again,
whether you like it or not."
It's much different
than comic books,
or even collectible
baseball cards
because it exists as math
on the Internet first...
and then later you can print
the physical copy of it.
This is the physical card.
This is worthless.
This is the thing that's worth
hundreds of thousands
of dollars.
So, I was going
to this digital arts conference
called Rare AF. Rare As Fuck.
Luckily for me,
they're having the world's
first rare Pepe auction.
Rare Pepe after rare Pepe
after beautiful rare Pepe
passing by
and then finally
gets to the end.
It's the ultimate rare Pepe.
The Homer Pepe.
And I'm like,
"I'm getting this thing."
Homer for 200.
- Homer!
-Two hundred.
People start placing bids.
Twenty, 30, 40,
100,000 Pepe Cash.
Two hundred thousand Pepe Cash.
- Two seventy-five.
- Two seventy.
It starts getting
so crazy
and it gets
to 350,000 Pepe Cash.
Which is about
39,000 US dollars.
Three hundred fifty going once,
going twice.
- Uh-oh!
-Sold!
What inspired you
to pay 39,000 US dollars
-for a rare Pepe?
-I'm just excited about Pepe.
Okay.
So this is Homer Pepe.
Currently the world's
most valuable rare Pepe.
Now what makes
this Pepe worth so much?
It's the only one
with a misprint.
Wait a minute.
"Wait a mintue. Wait a mintue."
That's value.
You're Matt, right?
You have gainfully employed
all of us.
So, uh...
What are you guys talking about?
We're all working
the general realm of, you know,
weird online behavior
from a scientific perspective.
We have, uh,
security people from the U.S.
We have cryptographers
from the U.K.
We have systems people
from, uh, mainland Europe
and we take a large scale
analysis of data,
getting a quantitative
understanding of hate speech
throughout the web.
We had to figure out a way
to be able to measure
this stuff at large scale
and we ended up building
a system to measure memes.
Just to give you
an idea of the scale, Matt.
So we had over a billion posts
from Twitter, Reddit,
/pol/ and Gab.,
and we examined the 160 million
some odd images.
So obviously,
these weren't all Pepes,
but the scale of this data
is huge.
-This is only for a year.
-Interesting.
There's a variety
of different memes,
but there tends to be
a Pepe variant
in every single one
of these clusters. So...
You pick a random meme
and Pepe has been
inserted into it
in some way, shape or form.
In a lot of ways,
Pepe becomes an entry point
to radicalization.
That's a very scary thing
to think about.
Do you feel any
personal responsibility for...
the bad stuff
that has come out of this?
I mean, you shouldn't,
but you know,
we're humans, right?
We feel guilt
for things
that we shouldn't feel
guilt for.
Um, I'm... I mean, uh,
maybe I could have been
more proactive earlier on
-to, like, try to control it.
-Yeah.
So, the question of,
"Can you get Pepe back?"
The reality is that
there is, you know,
160 million memes, essentially,
in a year, that we collected.
Not all of them
were Pepes again,
but a good chunk of them are.
That's a tough genie
to put back in the bottle.
Um, yeah. I wish you luck.
I do.
Sincerely.
So...
I try to stay positive,
you know.
But to be honest, I...
I've gotten trolled.
Somebody sent me this.
I don't take it personally
even though
I'm having my head decapitated.
It is what it is
what it is, right?
Um...
It's not like wearing
on kind of, like, my spirit.
But it's kind of wearing
on my drive to be creative.
It did manifest anxieties that
I have yet to unravel.
He just kinda
slept a lot and, uh...
You know, honestly it was
kinda like hard to talk to him.
You know, I let him know
I was there for him
and all that, but, like,
there wasn't anything
anyone could really do.
Tonight a Denton ISD assistant principal
is coming under fire for writing a new children's book.
A book, some say,
is politically motivated.
I'm using Pepe just as
a lighthearted way
of expressing maybe some
conservative, uh, values.
If you love America,
you're going to love this book
for sure.
When Matt found out
that there was an Islamophobic
racist children's book
starring Pepe coming out
on Amazon,
he was so upset.
And that's when he kind of...
freaked out about it.
It was, like,
the last straw.
It's like... It's like hell,
man. Like...
If you want to...
If you want to escape hell,
you can't ignore it.
You almost have to go
to the center of it.
It is not very often
that nerdy intellectual
property lawyers
get asked to fight
the alt-right.
But when we do, we're ready.
I have a whole team
of lawyers
that are working with me
pro bono
and have really
empowered me to feel
like I do have some say
in all this.
He really wanted to prevent
the digital release of the book.
Inside it was, in fact,
a not so veiled reference
to a lot of alt-right themes.
We found out
who was publishing it
and explained that Matt Furie
owned the copyright to Pepe
and that we were prepared to enforce his rights in court.
The Adventures
of Pepe and Pede.
the electronic version
was never published.
But the issue here is,
when you shut down one person,
others pop up.
- You know,
I'm a compassionate guy
and I'm a sensitive guy.
But being able to work
with a team of lawyers
has given me strength to...
shut these assholes up.
You've been sued
by a frog, bro.
Do you even
know this yet?
No.
-It's all over the Internet.
-I'm surprised.
Surprise, motherfucker.
You got sued by a frog.
You've been sued
by a fucking' frog, dude.
A conspiracy frog named Pepe.
We did sell
a poster that a listener made
titled Make American Great Again
that had a bunch of images,
of symbols that were popular
during the campaign.
We talked
to our trademark lawyers
and they said,"Mr. Jones,
this is so outrageous.
It's against
the First Amendment"
It is insane.
This is cockamamie balderdash.
He was selling a poster
with Pepe on it
with a bunch of douchebags
and I just didn't want him
to sell the poster.
The problem
isn't the drawing
or the making of the art,
you can do that.
It's just when
you mass produce it and sell it,
that's when it gets
into a stickier area.
He's like, "Yeah, the man's gonna stop us."
He just jacked up
the price of the poster
and then offered to sign them.
I'm trying to free
Pepe the Frog.
And I'm either
going to succeed
or I'll be destroyed
in the process, but that's okay.
I actually don't know
many people on here.
- Is that Trump, too?
- Yeah.
-There's are two Trumps.
-Sounds like having two Trumps
in the same poster,
is that legal?
Well, that's Billie Joe
Armstrong from Green Day.
And there's Marsha
from The Brady Bunch.
-Billy Idol.
-And there's Courtney Love.
A lot of times,
I'm cutting people's hair
for court
when they're in trouble so...
Yeah, I'm not into...
I'm not in any trouble at all.
Just, uh, weird situation.
Yeah, I've got this
kinda, like, a notorious,
uh, character named
Pepe the Frog.
-Have you ever heard of him?
- Yeah, I actually have.
-My kids have, too. Yeah.
-Oh, yeah?
- This guy, Pepe?
-Yeah, that guy right there.
So the guy, Matt,
do you know him?
That's me.
That who you got to go
to court with?
Oh, no, that's me. I am Matt.
- Oh, you're Matt.
-Yeah.
Oh.
I don't know who this guy is doing, this Furie fella.
But I agreed to be deposed...
for the Pepe the Frog deal.
Sir, would you raise
your right hand to be sworn?
Do you solemnly state
the testimony
you're about to give
will be the truth,
the whole truth
-and nothing but the truth?
-I do.
I don't like the frog.
I don't like this whole thing.
But I got to stand up
for the First Amendment.
Let's say the frog is triggering
for me now.
I hate Pepe.
Video tape deposition of Matt Furie
in the matter
of Matt Furie vs. InfoWars,
and Free Speech, LLC.
So from 2001 to 2007,
you had sort of this carefree
part-time, knucklehead life.
I still have that.
Excellent.
And what did you do to prepare
for today's deposition?
Really nothing.
So how did you pick
the name Pepe the Frog?
It sounded like, um, "peepee."
To go peepee.
So it is
a cartoon frog, right?
Yes, it's a cartoon frog.
It has round lips, right?
I wouldn't call that round lips.
- Okay. Uh...
-More tubular.
Tubular lips.
I thought I had some kind of like Zen-like grip.
He kinda did the good cop,
bad cop thing on me.
He was like, "So you like
Beavis and Butthead"?
Do you watch
Ren and Stimpy?
Yes.
But then,
he was all kind of like...
"Let's get 'em."
Forty-nine.
This is a fun one.
Hold that up
and tell us what's 49?
Um, yeah, it's an allegory
on the direction nature's going
from my perspective.
Uh, excuse me.
The second to last page.
I worked out this morning.
It's just coincidental
that they look alike?
Absolutely.
An original character
that's based on a hot dog man.
Part man, part hot dog.
It's clear what all this is.
So people can say Jones is using
a white supremacist symbol
when it's not.
It's a way of saying
I'm a white supremacist.
It's a way of defaming me...
and acting like I stole
something all at the same time.
It's just... god! Evil!
That's just evil!
Is that Big Bird?
Yes.
Thirty-one
is not Grimace?
No.
So those aren't
derivations of the Hamburglar?
-Oh, these guys?
- Yes.
-Do you mean Mayor McCheese?
And you got no license
to put that up.
-When I was in sixth grade,
I did not attain the license
to draw this stuff.
You know, I went to the bathroom
at one point
and he's taking a piss, too,
and he's like, uh...
"So I guess this is where
all the dicks hang out."
And I was like,
"Ha ha, that's funny.
And also awkward
that I got my dick in my hand
and we're talking
right now and..."
And then, shortly after that,
he's just
fucking screaming at me.
We're suing, uh, Alex Jones...
because he...
That's not the question
I asked you.
Oh.
Answer the question
I asked you.
It... It...
twisted my noodles for a while
and I, like...
You know when you, like,
say something in passing
to somebody else
and it's like...
you wish you would've said
something else.
This was like four hours of concentrated...
me wishing I would have said
something else.
It's not
a comfortable situation.
Dude, it sucked. It was hard.
From my point of view,
this is a direct copy.
So all of your
references before
are just references.
But this one is what,
traced, you mean?
Yeah.
Why do you suppose Pepe
looks happy in that picture?
Pepe's kinda like a mirror.
So the way that users online
would use Pepe
is a reflection of...
themselves, to an extent.
That's my...
interpretation of it.
No further questions.
I have nothing else here either.
Thank you for your time.
This marks the end of the video
tape deposition of Alex Jones.
Good luck.
We're going off record
and the time is 13:00 even.
Let's try to find
a little round...
- Oh!
-Oh, there it is.
-There.
-So we need two dark green ones.
Okay.
It took me weeks
to detangle my mind
after all this legal stuff.
That's what I signed up for,
you know.
It's not going
to be easy, but...
but I'm willing to go
the distance with this shit.
♪ And he hops and hops
♪ Pepe, watch out
And he hops and hops ♪
♪ Pepe, do stop
- ♪ And he hops and hops
♪ You make me dizzy
♪ I say, Pepe, come here
-Yeah.
- ♪ And he hops and hops
♪ Pepe, watch out
Everybody's
saying congratulations.
"A sparkle of good news
in these troubling times."
This was actually
going to trial.
And then Louis was just, like,
"Oh, surprisingly
they want to settle."
We were confident we were gonna prevail at trial.
And InfoWars gave up.
It just went live
on InfoWars.com.
InfoWars settles
Pepe the Frog lawsuit.
Pays tiny settlement
to creator Matt Furie.
This amount...
It's a bar tab
at a topless club, you know,
for one good night, so...
-So, what the heck.
This is more than I've ever made on theBoy's Club comic books.
So, it just, kind of...
To put it into context, like,
Alex Jones is like...
"Hey, we got away
with barely paying anything."
But it's all...
it's all relative.
This is a big deal to show
what these bullies are up to
and what happens
when you stand up to them.
At the end of the day,
he's just...
selling a bunch of bad ideas,
bad supplements,
in a bad attitude.
It's just a business.
Without you buying
the videos and the books
and the supplements,
we couldn't put on
one hell of a junkyard dog fight
against these bastards.
This case
against InfoWars
was the latest
in a string of successes.
We went after Richard Spencer.
Uh, we went after Baked Alaska.
We went after the Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website.
We have successfully enforced
Matt's copyrights in Pepe
against somewhere between 75
and 100 different entities
in connection with images
or language of hate.
And this is beginning
to turn the narrative
of Pepe back around.
This guys are, kind of,
like, messing with reality.
Amplifying negativity
or normalizing negativity.
And I'm doing everything I can
in my power
to change the course
of this thing.
And I think removing Pepe
from the hate symbol list,
it would be a win for...
peace.
With all these legal steps
that I'm taking,
everything I've been doing
up until now,
my goal is to get it off
the hate symbol database.
To me, it's not a symbol.
It's a character, you know.
It's the character,
but he's adorned with different
symbols, you know.
And they're pretty
extreme stuff.
I mean, yeah, you know.
It's tough, right? Having it
on the hate symbols database,
we have found
to be really useful
for those who are trying
to understand
this barrage of symbols
that is being thrown at them
whether it's a frog, a meme,
or a hand gesture.
- Mm-hmm.
-It's complicated.
Well, yeah,
it is complicated
because I think
with Pepe on the list,
it's seen more as a win for,
you know,
the so called alt-right
or these others
because now
they have that symbol.
You know, this is going to be
a lifelong journey for me
'cause I'm going to be entangled
with this character forever.
But what would be the impact
of removing it?
Most of these people
are creating these images
and are going to keep turning
these things out.
Your bottomline request...
It's really not going
to solve the issue.
It's not about this cartoon
being on the hate symbols list.
And it sucks!
- All right, man.
- Thanks a lot.
-Yeah, thank you.
-Good luck.
I don't want the narrative
to be like I'm victimized here.
People have to deal with horror on a daily level.
Let's work together, you know.
Let's uh... let's uh...
figure this shit out,
'cause, uh...
it's not getting any better,
you know.
All of the accounts
of what happened to me
and my family over the years
are enormous in scale
and historically rooted
in a legacy of white supremacy.
♪ This little light of mine
♪ I'm gonna let it shine
Why?
Why are you being provocative?
I like trolling people.
It's fun.
You do it for fun.
Yeah, it's fun.
The aesthetics and ideals
that extremists
are promoting online
with their use of Pepe the Frog
are now bleeding completely
into what you would otherwise
describe as regular people.
Yeah,
go ahead and video me now.
I'm videoing you too,
motherfucker.
You know what's coming
to you people, right?
You know Trump
is just the beginning.
You bearded monkeys
have no place in America.
The ideology is premised
on justifying violence
towards vulnerable people.
USA! USA!
And when that seeps
into the beliefs
of regular Americans,
you're heading
for some place very bad.
You can't put the genie
back in the bottle,
but you can send it
somewhere else.
To actually change the narrative
it would be necessary
to take the frog, to take Pepe,
and do something very different
with him.
Something that could develop...
a meme of its own.
Suddenly, out of nowhere, Pepe is being used in Hong Kong
as a symbol of freedom,
democracy, and youth protest.
I was surprised
as much as anyone.
This is
the newer version of him.
He is wearing a hard hat
and he's wearing
the outfit of the protesters.
It was like a way
to resist authoritarianism.
Oh, he was crying
from the tear gas.
Pepe is now
being spray painted on walls
as a symbol of hope.
Like when does that
actually happened in history?
You see it in movies
all the time.
Like, "This is the symbol
we're all gonna rally behind."
Yeah, this never happens
in reality,
except now it happened to Pepe.
Pepe beams
in everyone's brain
this idea of, like,
the every man.
As you grow up,
you realize that, i1738
01:191740
you1739
and you can use a small lever
to actually move
a great amount of weight.
That's the power
that Pepe has, right? Like...
"Oh, what's more worthless
than cartoons?"
But like, "What's more powerful
than Mickey Mouse?"
Right? Like...
One of the most powerful things
you can do
is create an iconic cartoon.
In a lot
of traditional societies,
it was very standard
to look for omens.
Signs, strange portents, things that were not expected
that suddenly came
out of the blue.
Because that was a warning
something was shifting
in society,
something had gone wrong,
or there was something building
that you need to know about
before it arrived.
Pepe the frog is an omen.
We need to listen
because it's not going
to go away...
until we hear the message
that it has to say.
Nowadays,
I've just been thinking
about this concept of a spiral.
Life unfolding in this kind
of spirally nature.
So, I've been drawing
in more kind of circular ways.
I think that there is kind of
a collective consciousness
of darkness and light.
And the only thing
that seems true to me
is that everything
is going to change.
Like, Trump is not going
to always be the president.
You know, Planet Earth isn't
always gonna have people on it.
You know, who knows?
The positive notion
of Pepe
is the possibility
that you can change again.
Hard core happy place.
You got to go hardcore happy.
I still like drawing him.
I go through waves, like,
I think last time
I talked to you, Arthur,
I was sick of him.
But now,
I like drawing him again.
ppens
when you stand up to them.
[robotic voice]
At the end of the day,
he's just...
selling a bunch of bad ideas,
bad supplements,
in a bad attitude.
[Matt] It's just a business.
Without you buying
the videos and the books
and the supplements,
we couldn't put on
one hell of a junkyard dog fight
against these bastards.
[Louis] This case
against InfoWars
was the latest
in a string of successes.
We went after Richard Spencer.
Uh, we went after Baked Alaska.
We went after the Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website.
We have successfully enforced
Matt's copyrights in Pepe
against somewhere between 75
and 100 different entities
in connection with images
or language of hate.
And this is beginning
to turn the narrative
of Pepe back around.
[siren wailing in distance]
[Matt] This guys are, kind of,
like, messing with reality.
Amplifying negativity
or normalizing negativity.
And I'm doing everything I can
in my power
to change the course
of this thing.
And I think removing Pepe
from the hate symbol list,
it would be a win for...
peace.
[elevator dings]
With all these legal steps
that I'm taking,
everything I've been doing
up until now,
my goal is to get it off
the hate symbol database.
To me, it's not a symbol.
It's a character, you know.
It's the character,
but he's adorned with different
symbols, you know.
[Matt] And they're pretty
extreme stuff.
[Oren] I mean, yeah, you know.
It's tough, right? Having it
on the hate symbols database,
we have found
to be really useful
for those who are trying
to understand
this barrage of symbols
that is being thrown at them
whether it's a frog, a meme,
or a hand gesture.
-[Matt] Mm-hmm.
-It's complicated.
[Matt] Well, yeah,
it is complicated
because I think
with Pepe on the list,
it's seen more as a win for,
you know,
the so called alt-right
or these others
because now
they have that symbol.
You know, this is going to be
a lifelong journey for me
'cause I'm going to be entangled
with this character forever.
But what would be the impact
of removing it?
[Oren] Most of these people
are creating these images
and are going to keep turning
these things out.
Your bottomline request...
It's really not going
to solve the issue.
It's not about this cartoon
being on the hate symbols list.
[Oren] And it sucks!
-[Matt] All right, man.
-[Oren] Thanks a lot.
-Yeah, thank you.
-Good luck.
[tranquil music]
[Matt]
I don't want the narrative
to be like I'm victimized here.
People have to deal with horror on a daily level.
Let's work together, you know.
Let's uh... let's uh...
figure this shit out,
'cause, uh...
it's not getting any better,
you know.
All of the accounts
of what happened to me
and my family over the years
are enormous in scale
and historically rooted
in a legacy of white supremacy.
[crowd singing]
♪ This little light of mine
♪ I'm gonna let it shine
[reporter #7] Why?
Why are you being provocative?
[man #7] I like trolling people.
It's fun.
[reporter #8] You do it for fun.
Yeah, it's fun.
The aesthetics and ideals
that extremists
are promoting online
with their use of Pepe the Frog
are now bleeding completely
into what you would otherwise
describe as regular people.
[man #8] Yeah,
go ahead and video me now.
I'm videoing you too,
motherfucker.
You know what's coming
to you people, right?
You know Trump
is just the beginning.
You bearded monkeys
have no place in America.
The ideology is premised
on justifying violence
towards vulnerable people.
[crowd chanting]
USA! USA!
[Adam] And when that seeps
into the beliefs
of regular Americans,
you're heading
for some place very bad.
[crowd jeering]
[ominous music]
You can't put the genie
back in the bottle,
but you can send it
somewhere else.
To actually change the narrative
it would be necessary
to take the frog, to take Pepe,
and do something very different
with him.
Something that could develop...
a meme of its own.
[somber music]
[protesters chanting in Chinese]
[Dale]Suddenly, out of nowhere, Pepe is being used in Hong Kong
as a symbol of freedom,
democracy, and youth protest.
I was surprised
as much as anyone.
-[protesters chanting]
-[pops]
[Dale] This is
the newer version of him.
He is wearing a hard hat
and he's wearing
the outfit of the protesters.
[Dale] It was like a way
to resist authoritarianism.
[explosion]
[Dale] Oh, he was crying
from the tear gas.
[Matt] Pepe is now
being spray painted on walls
as a symbol of hope.
[Dale] Like when does that
actually happened in history?
You see it in movies
all the time.
Like, "This is the symbol
we're all gonna rally behind."
Yeah, this never happens
in reality,
except now it happened to Pepe.
[chuckles]
[Dale] Pepe beams
in everyone's brain
this idea of, like,
the every man.
As you grow up,
you realize that, in fact,
you can affect the world,
and you can use a small lever
to actually move
a great amount of weight.
[crowd singing]
That's the power
that Pepe has, right? Like...
"Oh, what's more worthless
than cartoons?"
But like, "What's more powerful
than Mickey Mouse?"
[laughing]
Right? Like...
One of the most powerful things
you can do
is create an iconic cartoon.
[in Chinese]
In a lot
of traditional societies,
it was very standard
to look for omens.
[bubbling]
[Greer]Signs, strange portents, things that were not expected
that suddenly came
out of the blue.
Because that was a warning
something was shifting
in society,
something had gone wrong,
or there was something building
that you need to know about
before it arrived.
Pepe the frog is an omen.
[thunder crashes]
[Greer] We need to listen
because it's not going
to go away...
until we hear the message
that it has to say.
[ominous music]
[Matt] Nowadays,
I've just been thinking
about this concept of a spiral.
Life unfolding in this kind
of spirally nature.
So, I've been drawing
in more kind of circular ways.
I think that there is kind of
a collective consciousness
of darkness and light.
And the only thing
that seems true to me
is that everything
is going to change.
Like, Trump is not going
to always be the president.
You know, Planet Earth isn't
always gonna have people on it.
You know, who knows?
[both laughing]
[Matt] The positive notion
of Pepe
is the possibility
that you can change again.
[burbling]
Hard core happy place.
You got to go hardcore happy.
[Matt]I still like drawing him.
I go through waves, like,
I think last time
I talked to you, Arthur,
I was sick of him.
But now,
I like drawing him again.
[dreamy music]
[breathes deeply]
[tranquil music]
[water sloshing lightly]
[breathes deeply]
[splashing]
[uplifting music]